a bonus yen I just don't understand like
I guess the argument is the animal can't
consent right but you think horses want
you to ride them like nothing about
animals in our culture is consensual
animals are constantly just abused right
there basically slaves and then we eat
them aah buh new CN you know uh I talked
about this on my channel a million years
ago but I once spoke via the internet
with a vegan who is one of these rat
people someone who loves pet rats pet
mice and when she asked about my
experience that I talked about I'm not
going to say length here be I said no
you know like in Laos we were doing
humanitarian work you know the main
thing about getting rice two starving
people there was preventing the rice
from being eaten by rats and sure you
got to come up with with all kinds of
solutions to that and some solutions are
more violent than some are less violence
and what have you but um you know I mean
what am I going to tell you vegans use
these words that are actually scientific
in an unscientific way everytime vegans
use the word symbiosis you think humans
and rats are gonna live in symbiosis you
know and I mean even these supposedly
scientific vegans like a natural vegan
talk about evolution the evolution of a
doll that's something I should pick your
brain on because you know about this the
evolution of a dog compared to a wolf
you had one video with some really
interesting remarks that one one that I
saw at least you know this illusion that
a dog is something profoundly and
totally different from a wolf due to
evolution what you get is not this is
not the meaning of the word evolution
you know when human beings selectively
breed an animal that's not evolution you
know that's not natural selection people
you know um uh anyway to me this is kind
of a downward spiral of them of just you
know fat us half true half false beliefs
that vegans are constructing for their
own edification but I gansito on the
wolf thing I don't know if you hadn't
want to say about it but I love that
video did we just talked about the
significance of a dog lying on its back
and licking your face and this
a viewer is it's a direct inheritance of
it's a direct parallel to what wolves do
an impact mentality in the wild and you
know that those those are the behaviors
were left to their own devices dogs will
revert to them you know I absurdly I've
actually had to say to other vegans you
know it is literally a dog-eat-dog world
in the wild big dogs will kill a neat
little dogs and and so on you know big
dog we were dogs bears watching the
other berries yes yes yes but um the one
thing I said it I know I've said it in
comments in your channel and I've said
in other places as well this idea that
there's no absolutely no way that a dog
could be really sad about these a little
bit on some level silly to me and it's
just because what we know about wolves
the reality of wolf reintroduction is
that you know these animals were taken
out of the wild in order to be saved you
know these populations the starting
animals that were put back in the wild
had never known the wild they had no
conception of it many of them had
probably never hunted I'm sure it's very
possible none of them have had ever
hunted but most they had known is that
they were in a smaller enclosure just
within the wild just to get them used to
where it's like to being out there the
temperature changes in singles I'm not
going into a hot at night um and then
they were in the reality that program
there is a paper on there on talking
about the reality just behavioral
changes of rules once you release them
out in the wild that in a real way they
just decided you know on some level
we're just gonna trust but they're gonna
figure it out and the Mexican gray wolf
is that what the papers on it's the
smallest breathable it's a tiny animal
it's maybe 90 pounds I mean the ones
that you find like Alaska and like
Canada like I I've never met a wolf but
the largest well if I've ever heard of
in captive is like 140 pounds something
stupid there's like legends of 200 pound
wolves it's a 90 pound male tiny little
animal and within like four weeks like
it was a month you know days there was
something in them that they figured out
you know pack behavior taking down you
know
oh deer or elk or whatever they have out
here near zona um I would say also you
know something I'm again my critics my
critics are too stupid for me to even
respond to the most time you know the
other thing is that in many cases human
beings do put those animals through a
kind of training program before Rangers
we probably that's true in your case
also where you know any minimum they're
switching from processed food to
something that mimics you know eating
their natural prey or their natural
foodstuffs one of you very often when
you're preparing animals to be
reintroduced to the wild there is a type
of training there's a type of
preparation they're given so they can be
reintroduced about what's true of many
many many species now even without that
there are so many examples of packs of
feral dogs just returning the wolf like
behavior is not it's not like it's not
like you know we're talking about the
cure for cancer here this is not
something on the outer limits of
scientific knowledge that packs of dogs
go back to living in the wild sometimes
in really extreme conditions you know in
the Arctic or what-have-you where it's
really tough to survive the dogs can
just do that anyway it's happened more
times than anyone can count it's the
stuff of legend as well as the stuff of
real scientific research you know when
pigs do it feral pigs escaped from farms
but beyond that yes there are some
animals where we actually take the care
as human beings try to train them and
prepare them to survive before we put
them back in the wild a lot of
fascinating stories with that too but
ethically and morally can't we
acknowledge the difference between those
two things like keeping an animal in
captivity and providing with training so
that it can survive in the forest is not
the same as keeping an animal in
captivity castrating it and training it
so that it can spend the rest of its
life sitting in a human beings living
room so it can be reintroduced to be a
toy and a play thing I don't let me
derail you but amino to me yeah the
concept of reintroduction of the
wilderness as a sort of fundamental
ethical value and for me ultimately
that's also the difference between you
know well dirt wildlife management and
the sanctuary in the zoo a sanctuary is
not preparing those animals to be
reintroduced to the wild a sanctuary is
just giving them a place to wait to die
even if we're talking about a monkey
right even if we're talking about
elephants and monkeys in a sanctuary the
just held there like a zoo until they
die it's very different if we're talking
about wildlife management about
preparing animals to be reintroduced to
feed themselves to survive in the wild
or not one of the other things i think
interested is uh I think that's
interesting to me is um I mean I've tied
I have people who watch my videos you
know agree with some of my opinions on
the role that's used to played it
actually on some level you know whether
you want to call it saving actually
contributing to populations of animals
that were once really deficient in the
wild becoming strong again um there's
further questions you can ask about that
even in areas work you know they've been
really successful and stuff like that on
I've talked about the black-footed
ferret before the reality of
black-footed ferret program is they
didn't breach while in captivity I mean
artificial insemination was an important
part of that program I mean how do
vegans feel about artificial
insemination oh you you actually want me
to answer that question it was implied
yeah I know but look at me for me you
know look that there's this sort of
challenge to tradition which includes
like Native American tradition
indigenous traditions includes European
traditions I remember once because i was
i was studying cree in a jib way and you
realize ninety nine percent of the
people around me involved in that are
not white they're there at least partly
of indigenous blood most most people
interested in that field are not white
people you know naturally I remember
once I have no idea how the conversation
I was talking to another guy in the
classroom about bow hunting about using
bows and arrows and a woman in the class
who I think I think she just didn't know
what conversations think she broke in
half way and she she just acted that she
said like excuse me like she was
behaving as if I was presenting a
stereotype that all create a jib way
people use bows and arrows I remember i
said to her simply um you know my
ancestors in europe used bows and arrows
also it's we were actually we were just
having a conversation about archery you
know had nothing to do with the desi the
classroom was obviously
of predominantly native ancestry the
context were having this discussion it
but wasn't that wasn't the point we
weren't actually having a political
conversation at that moment but you know
the reality is we do share globally we
do really share one heritage in that
sense every civilization on earth its
heritage is based on animal exploitation
and war and fear and bows and arrows and
you know the actual you know the animal
sinew being cut out to make the
bowstring you know before modern
technology and here in Asia you know the
actual bow itself the compound bow was
also you had to kill animals to make the
bow even wasn't a piece of solid wood
here and the whole civilization
struggling to at all times have enough
men skilled in archery not really for
hunting but so they could fight other
men here we have this terrible shared
history that to some extent we all know
or we're living in ignorance of and you
know now we have to look ahead at the
shared future because we've only got one
planet in some sense we all eat from the
same buffet table we all eat off the
same plate and we don't even have
fiction about this we don't have a Star
Trek we don't have a Batman we don't we
don't even have fiction imagining how
the future is going to work based on the
the fundamental ecological and ethical
facts that we now know right III just
vegans vegans lack imagination for this
and globally there's this terrible
paucity imagination among mediators
everyone else they're basically slaves
and then we eat them that's what animals
are here for unless it's a pet that we
have in our household right like my
Rottweiler is not abused she's treated
like [ __ ] royalty sure according to
you right but maybe she just wants to
get some dick and you won't have any
male Rottweilers around a [ __ ] matter
of fact is there anything more abusive
than taking someone's balls off of their
body well no no I guess you I guess we
cut your balls off randomly eunuch
exactly you're gonna thrones you're not
getting it right
ablution